One of the greatest advantages the human species has is its ability to communicate their thoughts and work with others. This strength can be best seen in the human species strive to produce knowledge. Our production of knowledge is always done collaboratively and never as an individual. This idea may seem far fetched at first but it can easily be proven. All you need is to analyze the fringe cases and answer the question can there be collaboration when a knower is alone. We can answer this question by analyzing its place in two opposing subjects natural science and ethics to see how it applies. We will also look at the place of reasoning and imagination in these areas. 

Before we can continue, one must first define what is meant by alone as it will be core to the arguments made. In this case, when one is alone, one is not near any other contributors to the project both spatially and chronologically. If knowledge is a justified true belief, then the production of knowledge is the creation of new knowledge for a particular knower. Collaboration is the production of knowledge with another person such that both sides ideas are incorporated. Armed with this, it is now possible to analyze this statement.

The first area of knowledge from which we will analyze this question is the natural sciences. In the natural sciences, knowledge can be gained from a variety of sources. However, almost all of them can be considered a piece of collaborative work after one carefully analyzes the situation regardless of how that knowledge was gained. An example of this can be seen in physics. 

In physics class, we discussed how relativity, a section of physics, was developed by Einstein. We talked about how he made these discoveries mainly through thought experiments.Sundermier He arrived at these discovers with very little help from outside sources using only his power of reasoning and imagination. So, from one perspective, you could say he created the knowledge completely alone and without any outside help. 

However, if you were to look at his papers, his development of knowledge incorporated aspects of many other peoples works. His work would not have been possible without the work of those before him. He built one of his main postulates off observations of light and how its speed never changed. Even if we exclude that, we could still say that his theories built off the theories of others. Something as simple as the formula for velocity, velocity distancetime, or the Pythagorean theorem. The light clock A theoretical proof of time dilation Also, if physicists long ago had not created theories on how light functions, Einstein would never have been able to utilise aspects of it in his process. 

In fact, most discoveries today would not be possible without discoveries or ideas had by scientists in the past. And moving forwards, it would also be difficult but not necessarily impossible for discoveries to not incorporate aspects of previous science as preexisting science covers such a large area. Like Newton said in his famous quote If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants., it is only through the help of those that have come before that we are able to do what we do.

It is easy to see that at this point, all the work people do is built off or includes aspects of other peoples work but can this be considered collaboration. I believe so because is that not how collaboration works. You are taking their ideas and adding your own ideas to it, or you are taking their ideas and adding it to your ideas to help you solve the problem. In the process, you are advancing both ideas which is a key part of the collaboration process. As such, you could say Einstein expanded on the work of Pythagoras by using the pythagorean triangle formula as he was able to find new ways in which it is applicable. And a result, he was able to collaborate with someone that had been dead for thousands of years.

An interesting counterpoint to this is if you were to look all the way back at the very first humans. Someone had to have invented the first bit of fire or the first wheel. With inventions so simple and fundamental it would be difficult for there to be shoulders to stand on. This could open up the possibility for knowledge to be produced without working with prior knowledge. However, it is also important to consider that although collaboration in this sense may not have been likely, collaboration in the normal sense could still have been possible. 

Moving away from the natural sciences, we can also analyse this argument by looking at ethics, an almost completely different branch. Since ethics is so broad, I will only look at the ethical frameworks since it is one of the main key focal points of the entire subject. A persons ethical framework depends on what they see, feel and hear around them as they are growing up. This means your view of what is right and wrong and vary greatly depending on where you grew up.

As you live by this ethical framework, others will be able to see it and this will cause them to reflect on themselves and update their own ethical framework. You might then see their new ethical framework and decide to update yours in a certain way because of it as well. This chain of self reflection can then continue on and on with everyone adding their own twists based on their own experiences and views at every step. This all go towards building a pot of shared ethical knowledge. As a result, you were able to collaborate with the many people around you to create a shared pot of knowledge without having to interact with others at all.

This effect can be seen in the neo conservatism movement that became popular in the united states during the and . Since politics and ethics are very closely tied together as politics is another way to categorize what we believe is just, we can use it to explain this point. The neoconservatives movement was composed of people who left the anti communist left and joined the american conservative right. The originally liberal and leftwinged members soon drifted right and began incorporating many ideas from the conservatives as they began to agree more with their views. After this happens enough, the brand new conservatism movement begins to develop. Neoconservatism, 

It is also important to note that through this form of collaboration, verbal communication is not necessary as ideas are transferred through an individuals actions. This reinforces the idea that we can collaborate with people long ago or in the future as direct communication is not a necessary part of collaboration.

However, this argument is not perfect as there are other ways to gain ethical knowledge and change your ethical framework. As you are growing up, you will self reflect on what you have done to others and through that, you will also be able to improve your own ethical framework. For instance, you might hurt someone but you may not know it because it does not go against your ethical framework. Through the use of your imagination, you could put yourself in their shoes and realise what you are doing is wrong. Some might think of this as knowledge that can be gained completely by yourself and without the help of previous knowledge. Though it could also be thought of us simply collaborating with yourself as you are building on the previous ideas that your previous self had developed.

An issue with selfcollaboration is that it is like a cheat to the question as any counterclaim someone comes up with could be written off as selfcollaboration. If someone were to come up with an example where knowledge is produced without collaboration, you could always fall back on selfcollaboration as you would always exist. But that does not necessarily discredit it. Take a closer look at selfcollaboration and you can see that it is not such a wild idea. Collaboration means building on others ideas and knowledge. An earlier or future version of you is going to be quite a different version of you. Because of the different experiences that you would have gone through, it would be almost another person. As such, selfcollaboration would simply be building on ideas that your previous self has already created. 

Now the crux of this arguments relies on the idea that a future or past version of you would be different enough to be considered someone else. Although this is an interesting idea, there are still flaws. It is true that some extra experiences will be had by only one, though enough should be still the same that these things should not make a difference unless it is a major event.

Through the aid of natural sciences and ethics, we were able to perform an indepth analysis on collaboration and the production of knowledge. We were able to show that knowledge can be gained through a collaborative effort even when looking at subjects that are as polar as natural sciences and ethics. For natural sciences, you can look to those before you while for ethics, you can look to those around you. In the end, it is comforting to know that in the quest for knowledge, you are not alone and there will always be people that will collaborate with you and help.
